1. Discuss whether the Precision Time Protocol (PTP) is deterministic

   PTP is deterministic, because PTP can be modelled as a deterministic state machine.

   

2. Discuss what a packet-switched network is

   A network, where data is sent as packages.

   

3. Discuss to what extent the PTP is tailored for packet-switched networks only

   No it is not made only for packet-switched networks, but some design decisions were made in order for it to work on packet-switched networks.

   

4. Discuss whether the PTP works on Ethernet only

   If you wanted to, you could use it on other communication interfaces.

   

5. Discuss how the PTP can support real-time operations on Ethernet

   Through delay correction PTP tries to compensate for unforeseen circumstances. With a direct connection through Ethernet the delay would be ~constant and therefore the real-time operation of synchronization would be achieved. 

   

6. Discuss the offset correction and delay correction in the PTP

   IT IS GENIUS

   

7. Discuss whether it is fair to assume a symmetric line delay in the delay correction

   It is for a direct connection, but not for a wider network with multiple devices. Also depends on the precision requirement.

   NOTE: You cannot always assume that sending and receiving will take the same amount of time.

   

8. Discuss how the PTP can play a role in the White Rabbit Project (CERN)

   PTP is used in the project, but it is an extension of the protocol. The project wants to achieve sub nanosecond precision over the network. The typical distance between devices is 10 km!!!

   

9. Discuss how the PTP can play a role in 5G (5th generation mobile networks)

   Faster devices requires more precise communication. Therefore PTP with the nanosecond precision and small packets is a very good choice for this.